Banquet of Liberation: An Aspiration Prayer on the Stages of the Mahāyāna Path Namo gurubhyaḥ!  Inseparable from glorious Vajrasattva, The single condensation of the kāyas and wisdoms of all the conquerors pervading space, Presiding master, lama of great kindness, I supplicate you from the bottom of my heart. Please grant your blessings! In this and all future births, may I and others Attain the supreme freedoms and advantages, engage with unmistaken teachings, Be accepted by qualified spiritual guides, And bring study, reflection, and meditation to perfection. With a nectar garland of utterly pure renunciation, Having nurtured the lotus of the vows of individual liberation And by fully completing the beautiful path of the four truths, May all the torments of cyclic existence be extinguished. Understanding all beings pervading space to be my mothers And remembering their tenderness, In order to repay that kindness so they acquire all forms of happiness and freedoms from suffering, May I train in the altruistic attitude, the unified mind of love and compassion. Relying on that, for the sake of others Striving for unsurpassable complete awakening, May I uphold the supreme bodhicitta of aspiration and application So far not experienced even in dreams. In order to set beings on the path of temporary and ultimate wellbeing, May I be fearless in the face of turmoil, And may a fertile rain of jewels-everything desirable-always fall From the great, generous cloud of the sublime Dharma. With the white lotus of refraining from all unwholesome deeds, The sweet fragrance of gathering virtue, And the blooming splendor of the anther of benefiting beings, May the delightful garden of integrity flourish. Pacifying in basic space any anger triggered by objects, Meeting hardships on the path with exceptional tolerance, And having the power of fearless confidence toward the profound meaning, May I emulate the youthful Mañjuśrī in my training. May the armorlike diligence of my motivation be stable, And may I be undistracted from the bodhisattva's conduct of actual application. Not giving in to weariness, May I apply myself to benefiting beings until cyclic existence comes to an end. With pliable body and mind, abiding in happiness in this life And mastering discerning wisdom, May I enter the ocean of stable samādhi, Which renders evident the suchness of the noble path. First, through study may I gain a general understanding of the underlying nature of things, Then, through reflection may I cut through misconceptions about the provisional and definitive truths, And finally, through meditation may profound wisdom illumination Blossom as the unity of the two truths. May I outshine the lower paths through skillful means, Not giving up on saṃsāra due to the power of compassion, And by perfecting an ocean of aspirations Reach the other shore, the culmination of sublime wisdom. May all the buddhas and bodhisattvas of all times and directions Be pleased by marvelous clouds of offerings, And may I always serve the assembly Of all who uphold their sublime Dharma. In that way, may I achieve great benefit for beings, Completely ripen them and engage with all the worlds, Fully purify all realms, enter the Mahāyāna path, And, making all activity meaningful, accomplish the Great Vehicle. The particular feature of the unsurpassable Vajrayāna Is to join us with the eminent unified level in one lifetime. Through the presiding master, who is skilled in teaching that just as it is, May my three doors be ripened by the utterly pure four empowerments. For the time being, by perfecting the qualities of the ten outer and inner powers Of the four enlightened activities and eight great accomplishments, And through joining by means of the three kinds of conduct of yogic discipline, May I swiftly attain the unified stage of the path of training. Ultimately, the vajra dance of unity of the path of no-more-learning Relies on the proximate cause of mudrās. With unlimited kāyas, wisdoms, and enlightened activities, May I accomplish boundless benefit for myself and others. Furthermore, may the teachings of knowledge and practice spread and grow. May the lotus feet of the holders of the teachings remain steadfast for a hundred eons. And may beings, through the conduct of the ten virtues, Enjoy a new celebration of the Golden Age. Thus, whenever through my altruistic intentions I make one-pointed aspirations, May they always be accomplished swiftly, without obstacle, And with auspicious signs! On the eighth day of the tenth month, at the time of modestly showing veneration by means of a cloud of offerings before the Mahābodhi statue  on the lower story of the central temple of glorious Samye, great Akaniṣṭha, this poetic aspiration prayer arose from uncontrived and firm devotion. It was composed by the wandering vagabond Tsuglak Mawe Nyima. Sarvadā maṅgalaṃ. 
